Israeli forces have killed at least 11
Palestinians in the occupied West Bank
on Friday the Palestinians have gathered
in several places including near the
illegal settlement of B Al to protest in
support of Gaza since Saturday at least
47 Palestinians have been killed in the
occupied West Bank either by Israeli
forces or in settler attacks Nita
Ibraham is in bate Allen she joins us
live so Nita 11 Palestinians killed
there today can you just bring us up to
date with exactly what has
happened well after the Friday prayers
Palestinians have took to the streets of
different Palestinian cities here in the
occupied West Bank and moved to
confrontation points with the Israeli
forces and tried to show support for
Gaza and protesting against the Israeli
bombardment on their fellow Palestinians
in the besieged Gaza Strip we're here in
front of one protest that is happening
in front of the illegalist Israeli
settlement of b l and we're seeing the
Israeli forces using live ammunition
against the protesters you're talking
about people who are only armed with
rocks if so and they're being hit with
even drones carrying tear gas and
directing it towards the protesters and
as you can see now it's getting darker
which means it's going to get more risky
for Palestinians it's going to be hard
for them to identify where the shooting
is coming from as we are seeing these
forces moving in different directions
around the military checkpoint and
around the illegal Israeli settlement
and let's not forget that in front of us
also maybe we can Pan the camera to show
you is the center of the Israeli
occupation in the occupied West Bank the
building where basically the Palestinian
movement is decided the Palestinian
permits so when we talk about the
occupied West Bank we are talking about
a system of occupation that has been in
place for decades where Palestinians
even have to take a military permit
before they go to a hospital before they
go from one place to another if they
want to get married if they want to
register their children in the uh public
population registry so add to that the
already difficult scenes that
Palestinians are seeing and that are
coming out from the besieged Gaza Strip
and you can just get a feeling of how
much Palestinians are frustrated how
much they're triggered how much they
feel that they've been left alone
already we were talking about 2023 being
the deadliest year in the occupied West
Bank in two decades so Palestinians here
would tell you that the Israeli forces
were already trigger happy so you can
imagine in a state of War as the
Palestinians are being killed as the
world is showing more and more support
for for Israel that these numbers of
casualties are going to increase yeah
Nita can you just explain what will
happen in the West Bank when this
potential escalation this military
escalation comes from Israel into Gaza
what what uh direct impact will that
have on the West
Bank well it's hard to tell how and when
if and if the Palestinian armed groups
are going to be retaliating towards
what's happening we've been seeing uh
some armed groups here in the occupied
West Bank gather
and carry arms and use that in
committing attacks against Israeli
forces um so it's hard to tell whether
they can do that now with the state of
total closure between different cities
in the occupied West Bank and we are
talking about a population that is
largely unarmed that it knows it's
facing a heavy military with the most
technological and advanced Weaponry um
so you know where the power lies in this
conflict but we've been speaking to
those groups that have been uh uh
grouping together and working together
in Janine and Naas and people there
would say yes we know we are the weaker
party but that doesn't mean to give up
and for them it is expected for their
feelings to get even more agitated as
they're seeing the Israeli forces
pushing uh more than 1 million
Palestinians uh away from their homes in
Gaza so they're looking at the situation
and seeing that the world saying that
the world is witnessing another neba
which is the catastrophe that took place
in 1948 where we've seen hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians being
displaced from their homes as the state
of Israel has been created so you can
imagine that the Palestinians feel that
they're totally being left alone K being
killed in front of the world's cameras
while no one is paying attention to
their plight as victims of decades long
Israeli military occupation okay thank
you so much that is Nita Ibrahim for us
in bate
L well Imran Khan is outside a hospital
in rala and he sent us this
report all throughout the day we've seen
ambulances arrive here from various
demonstrations in the occupied West Bank
this ambulance is actually arriving with
a critically uh injured person you can
see everybody uh all the Medics get
around um now what the EMTs are telling
us is that the types of injuries that
they're seeing are from live fire and
they say that there is an excessive use
of force against Palestinians um
normally the Israelis would use rubber
coated steel bullets they would use tear
gas but now it seems that they are using
life fire against the protesters now
right now uh the hospital says it's not
overwhelmed but it is worried that if
things escalate it could simply become
overwhelmed Imran Khan Al jazer ramala